README.md, before:

# dit-cf-security [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/uktrade/dit-cf-security.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/uktrade/dit-cf-security) [![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/2e18d6693c2c9dcd4d3e/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/uktrade/dit-cf-security/test_coverage)

A configurable route service that allows access to applications based on combinations of

- basic auth [for automated testing tools],
- IP address [based on a configurable index in the `x-forwarded-for` header],
- shared secret in an HTTP header [passed from a CDN],
- requested host name.

All requests are routed to the IP address(es) of a single host that should resolve to the Cloud Foundry router. This is to support persistent onward connections, to avoid routing requests back through a CDN, and to avoid routing requests to arbitrary targets on the internet as part of a defense-in-depth/least-privilege strategy.

The service is configured with a number of _routes_. For each route, multiple allowed shared secret and basic auth credentials are supported to allow for credential rotation. These routes can match Cloud Foundry routes, but they don't have to; for example to allow the same basic auth credentials across domains.

Any header defined as a shared secret header is not forwarded to the origin, even if defined in a non-matching route.


## Usage

Push this route-service to Cloud Foundry [GOV.UK PaaS]

`$ cf push ip-filter-service`

Create a user provided service

`cf create-user-provided-service test-route-service -r https://<ROUTE-SERVICE-ADDRESS>`

Bind to your application

`$ cf bind-route-service <APPLICATION-DOMAIN> test-route-service --hostname <APPLICATION-HOST>`


## Configuration

Configuration is done via sets of environment variables, where each set defines a route. If a request isn't allowed by the settings of a route, the next is checked until one is found that does allow it. If no route matches a request, a 403 is returned with an error page.

In the following, `i`, `j`, `k` and `l` can be any whole number.

| Variable                 |  Description | Example |
| ---                      | ---          | ---     |
| `ROUTES__i__HOSTNAME_REGEX`| A regular expression to match against the hostname |`^my\.domain\.com$`
| `ROUTES__i__IP_DETERMINED_BY_X_FORWARDED_FOR_INDEX` | The index of the IP addresses in the `x-forwarded-for` header to trust as the client's IP address | `-3`
| `ROUTES__i__IP_RANGES__j` | A CIDR range to match against the client IP. At least one is required per route | `1.2.3.4/32`
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__USERNAME` | A basic auth username | _not shown_
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__PASSWORD` | A basic auth password | _not shown_
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__AUTHENTICATE_PATH` | A path to force the server to return a 401 and `WWW-Authenticate` header | `/__authenticate`
| `ROUTES__i__SHARED_SECRET_HEADER__l__NAME` | The name of the HTTP header which must contain a secret value | `x-cdn-secret`
| `ROUTES__i__SHARED_SECRET_HEADER__l__VALUE` | The required secret value in the HTTP header | _not shown_

The following are settings that apply globally.

| Variable                 |  Description | Example |
| ---                      | ---          | ---     |
| `ORIGIN_HOSTNAME`| The origin host that all requests are routed to | `some-domain-under.cloud-foundry-router.test`
| `ORIGIN_PROTO` | The protocol used to communicate to the origin | `https`
| `EMAIL` | The email address shown to users on authorisation failure | `my.email@domain.test`
| `LOG_LEVEL` | The Python log level | `INFO`
| `PORT` | The port for the application to listen on, typically populated automatically by Cloud Foundry | `8080`

Commit message:

bump python to 3.8.17
Bump Gevent

bump python again

Fix chunked response test

It appears as though the control characters are handled by Werkzeug now, thus the chunk length and \r\r delimeters aren't required.

added: devcontainer
added: pre-commit
update: python version

reformat: tests.py

fixed: tests

update: readme

README.md, after:

# dit-cf-security [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/uktrade/dit-cf-security.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/uktrade/dit-cf-security) [![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/2e18d6693c2c9dcd4d3e/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/uktrade/dit-cf-security/test_coverage)

A configurable route service that allows access to applications based on combinations of

- basic auth [for automated testing tools],
- IP address [based on a configurable index in the `x-forwarded-for` header],
- shared secret in an HTTP header [passed from a CDN],
- requested host name.

All requests are routed to the IP address(es) of a single host that should resolve to the Cloud Foundry router. This is to support persistent onward connections, to avoid routing requests back through a CDN, and to avoid routing requests to arbitrary targets on the internet as part of a defense-in-depth/least-privilege strategy.

The service is configured with a number of _routes_. For each route, multiple allowed shared secret and basic auth credentials are supported to allow for credential rotation. These routes can match Cloud Foundry routes, but they don't have to; for example to allow the same basic auth credentials across domains.

Any header defined as a shared secret header is not forwarded to the origin, even if defined in a non-matching route.

## Usage

Push this route-service to Cloud Foundry [GOV.UK PaaS]

`$ cf push ip-filter-service`

Create a user provided service

`cf create-user-provided-service test-route-service -r https://<ROUTE-SERVICE-ADDRESS>`

Bind to your application

`$ cf bind-route-service <APPLICATION-DOMAIN> test-route-service --hostname <APPLICATION-HOST>`

## Configuration

Configuration is done via sets of environment variables, where each set defines a route. If a request isn't allowed by the settings of a route, the next is checked until one is found that does allow it. If no route matches a request, a 403 is returned with an error page.

In the following, `i`, `j`, `k` and `l` can be any whole number.

| Variable                                            | Description                                                                                       | Example             |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| `ROUTES__i__HOSTNAME_REGEX`                         | A regular expression to match against the hostname                                                | `^my\.domain\.com$` |
| `ROUTES__i__IP_DETERMINED_BY_X_FORWARDED_FOR_INDEX` | The index of the IP addresses in the `x-forwarded-for` header to trust as the client's IP address | `-3`                |
| `ROUTES__i__IP_RANGES__j`                           | A CIDR range to match against the client IP. At least one is required per route                   | `1.2.3.4/32`        |
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__USERNAME`                | A basic auth username                                                                             | _not shown_         |
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__PASSWORD`                | A basic auth password                                                                             | _not shown_         |
| `ROUTES__i__BASIC_AUTH__k__AUTHENTICATE_PATH`       | A path to force the server to return a 401 and `WWW-Authenticate` header                          | `/__authenticate`   |
| `ROUTES__i__SHARED_SECRET_HEADER__l__NAME`          | The name of the HTTP header which must contain a secret value                                     | `x-cdn-secret`      |
| `ROUTES__i__SHARED_SECRET_HEADER__l__VALUE`         | The required secret value in the HTTP header                                                      | _not shown_         |

The following are settings that apply globally.

| Variable          | Description                                                                                   | Example                                       |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `ORIGIN_HOSTNAME` | The origin host that all requests are routed to                                               | `some-domain-under.cloud-foundry-router.test` |
| `ORIGIN_PROTO`    | The protocol used to communicate to the origin                                                | `https`                                       |
| `EMAIL`           | The email address shown to users on authorisation failure                                     | `my.email@domain.test`                        |
| `LOG_LEVEL`       | The Python log level                                                                          | `INFO`                                        |
| `PORT`            | The port for the application to listen on, typically populated automatically by Cloud Foundry | `8080`                                        |

## Development

We have devcontainer configuration added to make development easier, you can optionally add `.devcontainer/.env` file with following key value pairs to configure git in devcontainer

`.devcontainer/.env`

```bash
GIT_USER_NAME=Firstname Lastname
GIT_EMAIL=my@email.com
GIT_COMMIT_EDITOR=code -w
```
